feat(post-scan action): GCP Teams notification for FSS (#88)
trendmicro/cloudone-filestorage-plugins: post-scan-actions/gcp-python-teams-notification/README.md

# Cloud One File Storage Security Post Scan Action for GCP - MS Teams notifications

**:warning: Note: File Storage Security for GCP solution is in preview.**

## Prerequisites

> 1. **Install supporting tools**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install Google Cloud SDK.
```

   - [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install-sdk)

## Installation

### With GCP Cloud Shell

> 1. Open in Cloud Shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open in Cloud Shell.
```

[![Open in Cloud Shell](https://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://shell.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Ftrendmicro%2Fcloudone-filestorage-plugins.git&cloudshell_workspace=post-scan-actions%2Fgcp-python-teams-notification&cloudshell_tutorial=docs/deploy-tutorial.md)

### Local Machine

> 1. Login to the Google Cloud SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Login to the Google Cloud SDK.
```

   ```sh
   gcloud init
   ```

   (or)

   ```sh
   gcloud auth application-default login
   ```

2. Set the GCP Project ID on the CLI where the storage stack is deployed.

   ```
   gcloud config set project <PROJECT_ID>
   ```

## Configure Google Cloud function

1. Specify the following fields and execute the deployment script:

> - **TEAMS_URL** - The incoming webhook URL generated from MS Teams Channel connectors. This generated URL can be created by following the step-by-step guide to creating an Incoming Webhook described here - [How to configure and use Incoming Webhooks in Microsoft Teams](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-365-pnp-blog/how-to-configure-and-use-incoming-webhooks-in-microsoft-teams/ba-p/2051118).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **TEAMS_URL** - The incoming webhook URL generated from MS Teams Channel connectors. This generated URL can be created by following the step-by-step guide found here - [How to configure and use Incoming Webhooks in Microsoft Teams](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-365-pnp-blog/how-to-configure-and-use-incoming-webhooks-in-microsoft-teams/ba-p/2051118).
```

> - **DEPLOYMENT_REGION** - The region where the File Storage Security Storage stack was deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DEPLOYMENT_REGION** - The region in which the File Storage Security Storage stack is deployed.
```

- **GCP_PROJECT_ID** - Project ID of the GCP project.
- **TRIGGER_RESOURCE** - Topic name of the scan result topic name. Example: `projects/<PROJECT_ID>/topics/<SCAN_RESULT_TOPIC_NAME>`
- **EVENT_TYPE** - Optional. Defaults to `providers/cloud.pubsub/eventTypes/topic.publish`

## Deploy Google Cloud function to push Slack notifications

1. Install Serverless on your local machine.

   ```sh
   npm install -g serverless
   ```

> 2. Deploy Serverless project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Deploy the Serverless project:
```

   ```sh
   serverless plugin install -n serverless-google-cloudfunctions

   serverless deploy -s prod /
   --param="TEAMS_URL=<TEAMS_URL>" /
   --param="DEPLOYMENT_REGION=<DEPLOYMENT_REGION>" /
   --param="GCP_PROJECT_ID=<GCP_PROJECT_ID>" /
   --param="TRIGGER_RESOURCE=<TRIGGER_RESOURCE>" /
   --param="EVENT_TYPE=<EVENT_TYPE>"
   ```

## Test MS Teams notifications

> Check MS Teams to see new notifications. To test your deployment, you'll need to generate a malware detection using the eicar file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check MS Teams for new notifications. To test your deployment, you'll need to generate a malware detection using the eicar file.
```

1. Download the eicar file from eicar file page into your scanning bucket with the script.

    ```
    wget https://secure.eicar.org/eicar.com.txt

    gsutil cp eicar.com.txt gs://<SCANNING_BUCKET_NAME>/eicar
    ```

   > File Storage Security scans the file and detects the malware.

> 2. Execute the script to examine the scan result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Execute the script to examine the scan results:
```
